---
layout: post
title: "A random walk on block chains [1]: a meme coin investor's note"
date: 2021-12-21
categories: journal
tags: [journal]
---

# A meme coin investor's note

Although highly controversial, meme coins are a once-in-a-life-time investing oppotunity.
What characteristics I am looking for in a good investment target:
- Small to median market cap, which means roughly between 5M and 200M. Above this range, a coin does not have much upside; below this range, there is hardly strong enough evidence that a coin may attract mass attention. In a word, I am looking for coins that has attracted attention, but not yet over-heated.
- Has a professional dev team. A team may not be transparent to public but can be exmained via their website, github repo and social media.
    - The website shall be well designed, with a clean layout, user-friendly, containing all the important information e.g. tokenomics, white-paper, roadmap, etc. 
    - Github shall be actively updated and contributed.
    - Social media shall be actively maintained. It's good to a have a discord channel.
- Has a clear roadmap describing where the project is going and the steps it will take over time.
- Has some unique feature that distinguishes itself from other coins.

What I found to be good candidates:

# SHIBX

As of today, SHIBAVAX has a marketcap of 5M. If it is ever able to reach top 100 (the 100th largets coin is 800M), that would be 100x upside; in the meantime, coin holders will get revenue from every transaction made, which adds some extra to the upside. What make it stand out is that it is the only meme coin (as far as I know) that is native to Avalanche (AVAX) ecosystem. As AVAX is growing and getting momentum, SHIBX will too. The downside of this coin is that it does not have a clear goal as to where it is going in 2022. The project is not open-source on github, therfore not fully transparent to the public.

# CATGIRL

From all perspective, catgirl is a decent project. The downsides are that it already has a large marketcap >200M as of today; also its target consumer might be narrower than other coins like DOGE/SHIB. It targets to anime lovers I believe. 
