---
layout: post
title: "Flask and web development"
date: 2021-08-22
categories: journal
tags: [journal]
---

This is a brief note for the course "build python web apps with flask" from [codecademy](https://www.codecademy.com).

# Django vs Flask?
- Django Full-stack web framework that follows the batteries-included approach.
- Flask is more light-weight but as powerful when fully utilized.

# Front-end vs back-end
Front-end of a website 
- consists of HTML, CSS, JavaScript and static assets.
Back-end 
- is largely storing, accessing and manipulating data.
- it often has an API to intereact through HTTP requests and responses.

# Stack?
> The collection of technologies used to create the front-end and back-end of a web application is referred to as a _stack_ 

Two set of stacks:
- MEAN stack: Mongo.DB, Expresss.js, Angular JS, and Node.js
- LAMP stack: Linux, Apache, MySQL and PHP

# HTTP?
Stands for **H**yper**t**ext **T**ransfer **P**rotocol, is designed to enable communications between clients and servers.
## Methods
### GET
GET is used to request data from a resource.
### POST
POST is to send data to create/update a resource.

## How it works??
The client sends request to the server and the server processes the request sends back the response. Both request and response are in the form of HTTP message, which has start line, headers.
### Request HTTP message
- Start line: method, url, http/version
- Headers: key-value pairs
### Response HTTP message
- Start line: http/version status code (404: not found, 200: ok, etc)
- Headers: key-value pairs
- Body: 

# Jinja2?
Jinja2 is the [template engine](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Template_processor) of flask.
The name jinja is from Japanese "神社". Go to [here](https://jinja.palletsprojects.com/en/latest/templates/) for the documentation of jinja2.

## Essential syntax
Embedding a variable into a html is simply done by `{{ that_varibale }}`, here `{{ ... }}` is called a delimiter. There are 3 delimiters:
```jinja
{{ variable }}
{% statement %}
{# for comments#}
```

### If else
```jinja
{% raw %}
{% if my_list|length > 1 %}
{{my_list[1]}}
{% elif my_list|length > 0 %}
{{my_list[0]}}
{% else %}
Nothing to display.
{% endif %}
{% endraw %}
```
### For loop
```jinja
{% raw %}
<ul>
{% for k, v in my_dict.items() %}
<li> {{ k }} {{ v}} </li>
{% endfor %}
</ul>
{% endraw %}
```
You see, a lot is similar to python syntax, however if-else and for-loop must be closed by `{% endif %}` and `{% endfor %}`. Why?? While python can tell the end of a for-loop by indentation, html is insensitve to indentation, therefore you need to tell it when an if-else or for-loop ends.
### Template inheritance
A "child template" looks like this, which "extends" a parent template.
```jinja
{% extend "base_template.html" %}
{% block my_block_tag %}{% endblock %}
```
While `{% block my_block_tage %}{% endblock %}` encloses the block in the parent template "base_template.html".



