---
layout: post
title: "Roadmap 2021"
date: 2021-01-02
categories: journal
tags: [journal]
---

I've reached a point in my life where new year resolution is no longer a big thing to do. Nevertheless, it is good to look back on the paths I have gone through, think about what to do during the coming year, and beyond, becuase you know, choice is more important than hardwork.  

There is no need to emphasize that 2020 was an extra-ordinary year, during which, the world changed a lot, so did I. I experienced sad things, had some little thoughts and experiments about life, and at the same time, make a fortune by luck and courage. 

## highlights 
In the middle of the year, motivated by a music show "The Big Bands", I had the thought to become a musician, full-time or part-time, and took action towards it. But now I am not too serious about that, the reason is that I think compared to becoming a musician, it looks more promising and important to first realize financial freedom, after which, I can do whatever exciting with lower risk. That being said, I never regret picking up a bass and make progress on it, which is a rewarding and unique experience. Maybe someday I will become professional on that, who knows?

Last month, I ventured to write some fiction, jointly working with friends on it. I have zero expectation on the project (as one can call it), and rather than regarding it as "writing", I would prefer to think of it as an exercise to think -- about the world, about future and about myself and friendship, and to extend one's imagination and mindset. I won't be disappointed whatever the outcome is (even if I decide to stop it for some reason), because the process of writing itself is inspiring and exciting.

## takeaways (or: what I learnt from 2020)
- fortune does not fall from the sky when you sit there and watch, you have to take action, and very likely take risk too, to earn it
- stay healthy, stay happy, and work for yourself, play the long game. 

## roadmap of this year

- make progress on my work
- keep learning, keep learning, keep learning. A person that stops learning is a walking dead. And what to learn:
    - technology. In particular, programming
    - *the world*. keep an eye on what is going on, and think about the underlying logic
    - investment. In particular fundamental investment because that is the only thing I can do
    - and everything (if time permits): music, history, psychology, ...
- reach 1m networth -- not super hard to do, takes a little bit work and luck.
